
# What is packer?

`Packer` is an open source tool for creating identical machine images for multiple platforms from a single source configuration. Packer is lightweight, runs on every major operating system, and is highly performant, creating machine images for multiple platforms in parallel. Packer does not replace configuration management like Chef or Puppet. In fact, when building images, Packer is able to use tools like Chef or Puppet to install software onto the image.

A `machine image` is a single static unit that contains a pre-configured operating system and installed software which is used to quickly create new running machines. Machine image formats change for each platform. Some examples include AMIs for EC2, VMDK/VMX files for VMware, OVF exports for VirtualBox, etc.

# Packer Terminology


- `Artifacts` are the results of a single build, and are usually a set of IDs
  or files to represent a machine image. Every builder produces a single
  artifact. As an example, in the case of the Amazon EC2 builder, the
  artifact is a set of AMI IDs (one per region). For the VMware builder, the
  artifact is a directory of files comprising the created virtual machine.

- `Builds` are a single task that eventually produces an image for a single
  platform. Multiple builds run in parallel. Example usage in a sentence:
  "The Packer build produced an AMI to run our web application." Or: "Packer
  is running the builds now for VMware, AWS, and VirtualBox."

- `Builders` are components of Packer that are able to create a machine image
  for a single platform. Builders read in some configuration and use that to
  run and generate a machine image. A builder is invoked as part of a build
  in order to create the actual resulting images. Example builders include
  VirtualBox, VMware, and Amazon EC2. Builders can be created and added to
  Packer in the form of plugins.

- `Commands` are sub-commands for the `packer` program that perform some job.
  An example command is "build", which is invoked as `packer build`. Packer
  ships with a set of commands out of the box in order to define its
  command-line interface.

- `Post-processors` are components of Packer that take the result of a
  builder or another post-processor and process that to create a new
  artifact. Examples of post-processors are compress to compress artifacts,
  upload to upload artifacts, etc.

- `Provisioners` are components of Packer that install and configure software
  within a running machine prior to that machine being turned into a static
  image. They perform the major work of making the image contain useful
  software. Example provisioners include shell scripts, Chef, Puppet, etc.

- `Templates` are JSON files which define one or more builds by configuring
  the various components of Packer. Packer is able to read a template and use
  that information to create multiple machine images in parallel.

# Create packer templates

## Packer template using docker builder


```
{
    "variables": {
        "repository": "la/express",
        "tag": "0.1.0"
    },
    "builders": [
        {
            "type": "docker",
            "author": "Travis Thomsen",
            "image": "node",
            "commit": true,
            "changes": [
                "EXPOSE 3000"
            ]
        }
    ],
    "provisioners": [
        {
            "type": "shell",
            "inline": [
                "apt-get update -y && apt-get install curl -y",
                "mkdir -p /var/code",
                "cd /root",
                "curl -L https://github.com/linuxacademy/content-nodejs-hello-world/archive/v1.0.tar.gz -o code.tar.gz",
                "tar zxvf code.tar.gz -C /var/code --strip-components=1",
                "cd /var/code",
                "npm install"
            ]
        }
    ],
    "post-processors": [
        {
            "type": "docker-tag",
            "repository": "{{user `repository`}}",
            "tag": "{{user `tag`}}" 
        }
    ]
}
```
### Validate the template

```
packer validate packet.json
```
### Build the template

```
packer build -var 'tag=0.0.1' packet.json
```
### Run the container using the image

docker run -dt -p 80:3000 --entrypoint "/usr/local/bin/node" la/express:0.0.1 /var/code/bin/www
